https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLiH9_MU-6RjI9gdFqmvUfKRfw_zRxIb6o
Video 1:
cloud computing and certification 
aws provides its customers with access to services: data storage, computing power
the tipe of cloud computing - public cloud, privat cloud, hybrid cloud
The company has phisical servers, but  to increase data storage we can use AWS servises, like S3 [a large repository for deleting any amount of data from anywhere],ec2 [Elastic Computing Cloud]
Video 2:
programs can be scaled by automatic scaling and elastic balancing
areas of study:
one of the first exams is a specialist in cloud technology
three areas of specialization: certified deacision architect, DevOps engineer, DevOps administrator
Video 3: admission criteria
Practical experience of using computer network storage is required
the course provides an opportunity to learn how to use services S3 [a large repository for deleting any amount of data from anywhere], ec2 [Elastic Computing Cloud], as well as part of a database
practical experience in deploying and managing services AWS, as well as understanding the global infrastructure
abbreviation of the specialty: SAA-C01 [assistant architect]
cost $ 150, 130m 65 questions, passing score 720 out of 1000
Video 4:
practical work on creating an account AWS
acquaintance with the interface, services, budget planning
Video 5:
regions and accessibility zones AWS
these are the geographical areas that the SS uses to locate its infrastructure. There are regional and global services. zone 1 is the physical availability of capacity in a particular region (availability zone)
to improve performance, you need to place the specimens in several areas of availability to avoid fault tolerance
if one of the zones is not accessible, the consumer will still have access to the information
Video 6:
Service ec2[Elastic Computing Cloud]
EBS [Elastic Block Store] storage of proprietary blocks for data storage
ELB [Elastic Load Balancing] load balancer
AMI [Amazon Machine Image] provides the information needed to run the instance
tells about the types of instances, the possibility of their creation, the security group
Video 7:
instantiate ec2 using a protocol SSH
practice session

Video 8:
a test that I did not pass
Video 9:
topic: see screen part9 about security group
the topic of private and public IP was considered
told about the elastic IP address by means of which other users can continue connection to the machine even after preliminary disconnection screen [elasticIP part9] and [elasticIP2 part9]
User Data additional user settings that are stored in the instance
AMI [Amazon Machine Image]

Video 10:
Vertical and Horizontal scaling

vertical scaling is an increase in the power of an existing machine

horizontal scaling is the use of additional machines to increase power

such types of balance weights: V2 works through protocols TCP,UPD,TLS

V2 7 works with WEB programs, protocols HTTP, HTTPS

V1base balance weight, stale

balance weights use active and passive checks of nodes

and something about ‘'Listener’' and ‘'Target group’', i didn’t quite understand

and something about ‘'sticky’' didn’t understand also. How to do balance weight sticky?
27.06
created load balanser and ec2, combined machines creating target group. Set up security for accounts, created admin account to aws

29.06
listened to Vitaly's first lecture on networks
about the types of cables used: coaxial, twisted pair, fiber. Initially, a LAN was created, which was connected using a HUB device. It sent data evenly to all computers on the network, and this was the first level of data transfer. he was replaced by a SWICH device that recognized data packets and sent them to the desired MAC address. then an IP protocol was created that works with a router and is essentially a global network. protocols ipv4, ipv6 and signal transmission by cables were considered. more details in the written synopsis.

youtobe vieos about networks
1. NAT [Network Address Translation] with PAT many devices can go online with the same address
2. DNS servers. Resolver. what is it for, how does it recognize sites, what requests does it send?
3. LAN-WAN, denotes networks depending on the scale and type of organization. LAN [Local Area Network] - local area network. WAN [Wide Area Network] is a global network. LAN - ethernet standart. WAN - HDLC, PPP [Point-to-Point Protocol] standarts
4. The OSI seven-tier model is a transfer process
 data, which was divided into 7 parts.
- physical signal transmission [Ethernet]
- channel [frame] data information
- network: routing and IP. We send a DNS request and receive the answer in the form of the IP address and we substitute it in a package. Data encapsulation is the process of transferring data from the upper levels to the lower ones. Decapsulation is the opposite. Layer routing and protocols: RiP, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP.
- at the fourth level secure data transmission by TCP, UPD protocols is carried out. TCP [Transmission Control Protocol] - loss-sensitive traffic. Provides control over data transfer. UPD [User Datagram Protocol]. Network engineers use the first four levels, the other three are used mainly by developers.